Docs revamp! (#705)
grafana/tempo: docs/tempo/website/architecture/_index.md

A collection of documents that detail Tempo architectural decisions and operational implications.

# Architecture

> This document provides an overview of the major components that comprise Tempo.  Please refer to [the examples](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/tree/main/example) to see some deployment options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic provides an overview of the major components of Tempo.  Refer to the [examples] (https://github.com/grafana/tempo/tree/main/example) topic for deployment options.
```

<p align="center"><img src="tempo_arch.png" alt="Tempo Architecture"></p>

## Tempo

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tempo comprises of the following components.

```

### Distributor

> Accepts spans in multiple formats including Jaeger, OpenTelemetry, Zipkin.
> Routes spans to ingesters by hashing the `traceID` and using a [distributed consistent hash ring]({{< relref "consistent-hash-ring" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The distributor accepts spans in multiple formats including Jaeger, OpenTelemetry, Zipkin. It routes spans to ingesters by hashing the `traceID` and using a [distributed consistent hash ring]({{< relref "consistent-hash-ring" >}}).
```

The distributor uses the receiver layer from the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector).

> For best performance it is recommended to ingest [OTel Proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto).  For this reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For best performance, ingest [OTel Proto](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto).  For this reason
```

Author: Recommended seems right here. Also makes sense in the following sentence. Feel free to reopen if you feel otherwise!

the [Grafana Agent](https://github.com/grafana/agent) uses the otlp exporter/receiver to send spans to Tempo.

### Ingester

> Batches traces into blocks, blooms, indexes and flushes to backend.  Blocks in the backend are generated in the following layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ingester batches trace into blocks, blooms, indexes, and flushes to the backend.  Blocks in the backend are generated in the following layout.
```

```
<bucketname> / <tenantID> / <blockID> / <meta.json>
.                                     / <bloom>
.                                     / <index>
.                                     / <data>
```

### Query Frontend

> Responsible for sharding the search space for an incoming query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Frontend is responsible for sharding the search space for an incoming query.
```

Traces are exposed via a simple HTTP endpoint:
`GET /api/traces/<traceID>`

Internally, the Query Frontend splits the blockID space into a configurable number of shards and queues these requests.
Queriers connect to the Query Frontend via a streaming gRPC connection to process these sharded queries.

### Querier

> The querier is responsible for finding the requested trace id in either the ingesters or the backend storage.  It begins by querying the ingesters to see if the id is currently stored there, if not it proceeds to use the bloom and indexes to find the trace in the storage backend.

Reviewer: Should this be Querier?

Author: Yes.

The querier exposes an HTTP endpoint at:
`GET /querier/api/traces/<traceID>`, but its not expected to be used directly.

Queries should be sent to the Query Frontend.

### Compactor

> Compactors stream blocks to and from the backend storage to reduce the total number of blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Compactors stream blocks to and from the backend storage to reduce the total number of blocks.
```

> ## Grafana 7.4.x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using older versions of Grafana ```

> When using older versions of Grafana you must also use `tempo-query` in order to visualize traces.
> `tempo-query` is [Jaeger Query](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.19/deployment/#query-service--ui) with a [GRPC Plugin](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/master/plugin/storage/grpc) that allows it to query Tempo.
> See [this example](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/tree/main/example/docker-compose#grafana-74x) and [these docs](../../configuration/querying) for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using older versions of Grafana (7.4.x), you must also use `tempo-query` in order to visualize traces. The 
`tempo-query` is [Jaeger Query](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.19/deployment/#query-service--ui) with a [GRPC Plugin](https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger/tree/master/plugin/storage/grpc) that allows it to query Tempo.
For more information, refer to [these example](https://github.com/grafana/tempo/tree/main/example/docker-compose#grafana-74x) and [these docs](../../configuration/querying).
```
